---
layout: post
comments: true
title: What I _love_ and _hate_ about Ruby
date: 2019-10-06 8:20:30
categories: ruby
short_description: My _love_/_hate_ relationship with Ruby summarized
---

:heart:

1. It's beautiful.

Beauty is the in the eye of the beholder, but Ruby reads the most like
prose of any programming language I've used. This is largely because
of the complexity of the language, but the expressiveness

2. define_method

If you have an almost pathological exception with DRYness, you're going to reach
`define_method` often. `define_method` is one of the building blocks that makes
metaprograming in Ruby extremely simple. For example, if you we're writing a small

```ruby
define_method :test do

end
```

:broken_heart:

1. There are n ways of doing this.

This is largely a critique of Active Support, but this problem exists in
the standard library to some extent as well. The most recent example of this
was when I was reading a pull request with where `with_defaults` was called
on a hash. I'd never seen this method, so I had to search the docs. It turns
out that `with_defaults` is an alias for `reverse_merge`, along with `reverse_update`
All of these methods seem completely unnecessary - you can achieve the same behavior with
`merge`.

This the trade off that is made that makes the language beautiful. Human languages have

2. define_method

Like I mentioned before, I have a tendency to make my DRY. Often times I think this has
negative impact on the long term maintainability of the code base. Define method
immediately makes the code more opaque. If you're implementing a library that is going to
be consumed, this can be great.

`define_method` is a hammer that can make everything look like a nail.
